Make sure it's going.
It's going.
I'm talking to Joseph Phillips.
It'll pick you up.
It'll be fine.
Okay.
Can I talk?
Okay, please.
You're picking me up.
Okay.
I'm glad you love the book.
So far, everybody loves the book, except the New York Times.
It seems to me disappointed because I didn't say more.
That was Michiko.
That's Michiko.
And the Sunday Times.
Okay.
I didn't see the Sunday Times.
He was a little bit happy with me because I seemed smart.
You tend to forget some things, I guess.
No, I don't forget them.
No, I mean, in Miki goes with you, you tend to have a bad memory on some things.
No, because I didn't choose to write, actually.
I chose the personality or the biography, or biography, which is something I wanted to write about.
In this book, I wanted to give someone such material that should be related to my work.
You don't mind if I just poop this a little bit?
Nope.
You're not using this, right?
No.
What?
You're talking about, you wanted to write a memoir.
Yeah, well, that's what's going on.
relationship between me and what I've done in my novels.
In closing, there was so much of a personal nature there in the lives of two fictional characters that I realized I was actually writing about myself and my own past to a large extent.
And this is a clarification and a continuation.
Plus the fact that over the years, very many people have been interested in Tony Allen, wondered why I didn't write something about Tony Allen.
It's a mystical place.
And I love it.
I love it personally and agree totally with Jonathan Yardley's review on the last of course.
And he said, just
If all you wrote about was Coney Island, you would recommend the book unhesitatingly.
Because of that very, it is, it has a magical kind of version.
And it was an absolutely wonderful place to go up in.
When I grew up there, I and the hundreds of other kids who became great, I cannot think of a better place to grow up.
Even the absence of money for luxury had a good effect on the character and the temperament.
But me and the people I've kept in touch with.
You tell that wonderful story about the guy giving you
10 bucks.
Newt paper?
Yeah.
10 cents.
And you said, you know, I just recently got a check for 18 grand.
The 10 cents was better.
Yeah.
Any one of us can relate to that.
I remember I was waiting on tables as a kid.
Yeah.
And a guy that left me a $20 chip wasn't great.
I mean, it was... And then I had to go and get cars after that.
You literally never know that pleasure.
Some pleasure money can't buy.
Right, it's wonderful.
In writing, deciding to write a non-fictional work, do you find that you have put a lot of yourself into a novel?
But you can still hide behind fictional characters and imagining situations.
The prospect of actually writing about yourself, using your names, and being faithful with the necessity of having even sort of indulgent confession of some sort.
How did you respond to that prospect?
It was a kind of thrilling form of therapy for me to look at myself.
Well, first thing I was able to do in that couple of years of psychoanalysis, I had no time in writing this, and Manly came up.
And when I was confused, I began talking to my older sister about very personal matters, very personal, and the family, and things that I hadn't known before, hadn't remembered or had not known.
and discovering things about myself, which some were starting.
The discovery, for example, the death of my father and I was five.
Amazing you didn't know that.
But also, when I did this job, it was a very big, irry move of watching my emotions and my feelings about it.
I cannot remember any more than I've been.
There were two or three incidents I have in that last paragraph.
And I should remember, because I was five and a half.
And one of two things is like that.
But there would be a lot of wearing for a whole week when the Jewish father died, the Jewish father died.
I have no memory of that.
You're five years old.
I mean, it's five years old.
It's maybe, you know.
I can remember other things around me.
Really?
But even if I was sent away to be spared, in which case that separation would have been a shock loss, I would remember that.
Although I was there, I didn't block without a child.
At Istanbul, I had a very close family life.
Outwardly, externally, very happy childhood.
Internally, I'm aware now that there's indications of nervousness and anxiety, like the nail-biting, for example.
And you still do that?
Oh, yeah.
I don't know if you could just explore the decision to relate the memoir to the writing, because there is so much memoir stuff going around.
I know.
Did you see the piece in yesterday's New York Times about non-fictional books today, which are a bunch of books?
non-fiction, they're inventing things.
Because apparently that's selling, you know, and the more confession that you're willing to put in there, apparently the more saleable it becomes, even if it's not true.
Looking back over my life, I don't have that much to confess.
My impression is that it's fairly uneventful life compared
I could say the Nelson Ordon, or Norman Mail, or Sean Bellow, which is a number of wives.
My impression has been a fairly tranquil, even, unpredictable life.
The most exciting of the novel coming from the success of the novelists.
The world's heritage, but to your generation, might seem extraordinary to see.
I'm 54, so my generation's not that crappy.
No, you weren't in the war.
In my generation, what I went through in the war was something that two million Americans went through, and none of them were dramatic, dangerous situations that I had.
So it was the Tony Island background.
I had an effort to confess to what little I had to confess to, to give myself and to give readers an understanding of my own background.
The situation in this country after high school, or even before finishing high school, I tried to find a job after the age of 16.
To my knowledge, of coming out of Brooklyn, everybody succeeded, even though it was a period of the Depression.
The people that come out of Brooklyn have achieved.
It was extraordinary.
You can go down the list.
It's just an amazing cast of characters.
I can name it the two things that were contributed to last year.
One is a large population of Brooklyn, the lowest one to five boroughs.
In my life, I've always had a population of more than two million, which probably is larger than the population of Boston.
But make it the fifth largest city in America.
And the second thing is it was a depression backlash.
It's filled in us a desire to achieve something as soon as we were able to.
There was always a need for money, even though it was not best efficient.
There were things we knew that we could buy if we had more money, so I think there was that drive that helped motivate people.
Yeah.
Brooklyn's probably the fifth largest city.
Something like that.
They have that sign out there, and Brooklyn would have made America's fifth largest city.
Whatever.
I'm sorry.
And then there was the economic expansion.
Came with World War II and continued after World War II.
Opportunity for success.
The whole range of money.
I also think the fact that you have so many
Immigrants are not settling in there.
You know, immigrants, my background is Greek, and my grandparents come from Greece.
They come here to work, and they're just going around.
It's pushing the kids forward, and they're going to do better than me.
And the feeling that you're lucky to find work.
You're lucky to find any rest you can do.
I'm traveling around now, I think.
I think that's the same spirit.
amount of immigration.
When I say a hotel, most of the help, much of the help of hotels in California, it's Mexican, in New York, it's Indian, Asian Indian, I noticed on this trip, Spanish, Hispanic, so I think that often, and they're happy.
They're making money.
You or I or my children, or yours if you have them, would feel like failure if they had to go to work in a restaurant in a hotel.
Or be chamomile.
You know, again, we'd do it if we had to eat, right?
So in formulating, so this more or less emerged out of the last novel then?
Yes, it's all the time.
In which I did, I had to track my memories.
I still had the Catholic artists and the same thing again.
I had an interest in myself.
Another thing is, I had no better idea for a book than to do this.
Which is a very important factor.
And the third thing, the reciprocating course came from Christopher Buck, who in addition to writing books and reviews of human species, edited the magazine for four.
called Forbes FYI.
I've seen that, yeah.
Most people I know don't see it because they don't subscribe to Forbes.
It goes as a complimentary supplement to Forbes magazine.
We got friendly because he wrote a very good review of closing times in New York.
It was the first good review I've ever had in New York.
I still haven't had one in the daily New York Times.
That's funny.
He wanted me to write a page, and he suggested this.
He said, no, I couldn't refuse.
I would go to Rome.
He would send me to Rome for a week or so.
I'd accept right off of that.
And eat.
Go to a few restaurants.
How can you listen to turn that down?
Yes, he did.
And then write a page contest for being involved.
My being in Rome was a service when I went to WrestleMania 1944, but I couldn't turn it down.
I went and I wrote a piece, and since I'm not a food writer, nothing like a gourmet, I just like to eat, much of the piece had to do with my reflection and observations and memories.
I gave him, I think he said 9,000 words, he could only use 3,000.
There's got to be six miles of words about myself, more than the past in Rome, and the preceded Rome, which is Eastern Jewish cooking.
And it ended with my coming back on a naval cruise ship, having great meals there.
and getting my furlough to go back to Coney Island, eat the food I was accustomed to.
Well, I had to say, 6,000 words left over without that, so I just picked up and then put myself on that Coney Island.
So he ran 3,000, you kept the six?
Well, I worked closely with most of the different chapters here.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's a great story.
As they say, with a writer, nothing is wasted.
And that's important, isn't it?
When I was in Spain last week, I went and saw four great libraries, you know.
I went to the King's private library, goes back 400 years, blah, blah, blah.
So Saturday, I'm not going to record this.
I hate to transcribe myself talking.
I had to transcribe myself blabbing away.
All right, we're rolling again.
I am enjoying getting these insights.
Why is it that people always seem so surprised that you consider something happening in your best book?
I think the ones who ask that question have the same theory.
But whenever I ask that something happened, it's nodding.
So there are people who have the same opinion.
I may be reading it more recently.
Everybody who reads will read, or try to read, every very young day.
Something happens to everyone that they come to later.
But over the years, there are always people.
Do you think, you know, we talk about books appearing at certain points in your career.
Catch-22, I think it only had been written at that point in your development as a writer.
You couldn't have written that at the age of 60.
I couldn't have written it.
I couldn't, and I wouldn't shake it because the circumstances surround it.
It's not the same.
Vietnam, Vietnam came close to it.
The Vietnam War really.
National attitudes toward it.
But since Vietnam, we've had no national attitudes toward it almost anything.
And the only thing about Vietnam, it was because of the war in which almost every American was involved in one way or another, and with the post-war period.
which is extremely troubling.
And he's loved him to much of the country.
Since then, no return.
The civil rights struggle has disappeared.
There's no more majority period.
You do have a feminist movement.
You have a conservative life.
These movements that have anti-amortions,
People feel very passionate about it, but most people outside that story.
World War II was big, and the post-war period was big.
I think also, though, that as a writer coming along, if you were to attempt a book that emerges from your World War II experiences today,
It would be a totally different book.
I also think that had I written a realistic book about World War II, it would be on the shelves in the library, maybe short, but very exciting.
I know it's the confusion of the post-war world.
And that goes up to 1961 because I was absorbing events even as I was doing that with the World War II.
creating a book that would have application outside the world, which it has happened.
It's everywhere, major, major.
And I was still here for people.
I'm near you, for all the shows, who tell me that they've met all these characters, even though I myself never have.
But if they've been in the service, if they weren't conducting organizations, if they weren't for large corporations, they see people... It is interesting in this book, though, that you do suggest certain people from your life who influence the shaping of these characters.
And people who don't write don't understand that, you know, an invented character is an invented character.
You can say, well, it was this guy I knew, and his name was this, and so he's... I mean, obviously, you get an idea for a name, and you see qualities, and...
uh it emerges from a lot of people that you know but it is very interesting that in this book you do give us some people and you say that these people would probably be shocked to find out that they were the models oh yeah the ones the hungry joe
But the only one I saw after the war, his name is Joe Krenko, C-H-R-E-N-K-O.
He recognized aspects of his personality and experiences in the book.
I saw him after the book came out.
I wonder, if I had not met him, whether he would have recognized himself.
The name is Joe Gankover.
Sometimes there's a little incident that might have been... Incidents and character issues at combining traits.
Henry Jones, for instance, was a person when he brought up the New York edition of his collective works.
He was writing these prefaces.
And he used that as an opportunity, he was tempted to go in and fool around, you know, with the actual books that he'd written years before.
Wordsworth was notorious for changing his poetry and for the worse.
You know, and you find instances like this.
You and the other, and I imagine, feel that completed work is completed work, and that speaks for a period of time you're developing it.
Yeah.
Would you ever be tempted, for instance, to go in and tinker with things that you've heard about?
No.
I guess that's what I was trying to add.
Yeah, I don't normally read the works.
I did read the works in time.
Do you?
Well, I'm retiring to the Lord just a little.
I'm greatly impressed with the quality of my writing.
I was just going to ask that question.
Yeah, what do you think when you see something like that?
I don't think I wrote it.
Really?
I see descriptions, I see phrases, I see images.
And you say, that's pretty good.
Which would produce a great effort at the time I wrote it.
I'm a very slow writer.
Forms of literary language don't come easily to me.
When did I ever think of those words?
When did I ever get that phrase?
It sounds like evil and war is the scripture.
Have you ever stopped to figure out where this stuff comes from?
I mean, a number of writers, John Keegan, who's not a fiction writer,
You know what he said when he was writing The Face of Battle?
It's a great book.
He said it was like entering a zone.
Almost, it was like he was apart from himself.
Do you ever feel that way?
No.
That things are just kind of coming.
No, and I'm, again, I, I, I, I work in museums.
There's always a pain in the ass, as some people say to me.
It's neither.
It's a struggle.
The newspaper, I hope you get a page a day if I'm writing.
A page a day that I can set.
and then move on to the next page.
So you like to have that page done, though?
Oh, true.
I mean, it's finished work.
No, it's never finished.
Especially since the word process came into my life.
Each time, I add to what I do.
I like pages of long hair.
When I have 10 or 20 or 12 blocks, I go to the...
the keyboard of the word processor to enter it.
In entering, I re-write.
Usually I kind of add it.
But each time I add, I will re-read everything in that process.
And then when I print it out, I'll read it, and make changes in pencil, and then empty the changes in the text and the word classes before I print it out again.
Language is a struggle.
It's like bathroom tiles.
Remember the tiny bathroom tiles that used to be?
You'd still see them in barbershops.
So I put them in anything one at a time for me.
And so the language, the images, the sentences, the paragraphs would come in with great effort.
And once I'm past it, it's out of my mind.
I could come back and see it after a period of years.
And it makes you feel pretty good to see it, you know?
The critics and all the readers, the people who love this book, didn't make a mistake.
There must be something to have a title that you came up with.
Absolutely be part of the language, to have its own connotation.
And the title is one thing, and by now, because I'm going to be 75 years old, the book was published in 61, and it's out of 35 years.
It started in 53.
By now I can look back on it.
Look back, I don't have to look back.
Looking for the great amount of pride and satisfaction in having achieved that.
I'm sorry?
Did you finish the new book, Terry?
Yes, I have.
The last few paragraphs, just explain how pleased I am and how well things have gone for me.
Both times the viewers didn't seem to like the amount of self-satisfaction at the last time.
What do they want?
I think they want me to be in New York in the restroom.
Yeah.
To be grum, to be grum, to be profound.
I know your pal, Vonnegut, who I did an interview with last summer, he said, you know, I'm done.
I'm quitting.
I'm very happy with what I've done.
I have things to say, and I think I've said it, and I've done it.
And people said, geez, what?
I don't, I'm seguing into the, you know.
I have a different attitude.
Okay, and that's what I was about to say.
It could be, I'm done, but it will not be my intention.
I want to keep writing, and...
And for the same reason I think Vonnegut will keep writing, is that we have nothing better to do that we enjoy more.
That's a great question.
I love it.
The publication processes can be agonizing.
The editing process can be the conversation related.
I've never had that, by the way.
By the time I finish a book, usually I'm... I'll fight.
I'll fight.
And reviews are disappointing, and then the people who talk to you about reviews are disappointing.
That's worse than the bad reviews.
Do reviews bother you?
I would rather not see them unless they're very good, but if they come to New York, then I see them.
You have to see them.
The publisher this time has told him that he's saying, he's a disgrace to everything.
And when I was sent back, he'd give it to me.
I saw the beginning yesterday in my picture, because I was actually inclined to hear.
I mean, somebody said, you do.
I say, Howard, is it a rave?
And they say, well, I said, well, tell me about it.
That can discuss a lot of people.
I think so.
Remember, you said, it could have been Philip Worsett's wife's Clare Boomer.
He went into a state of clinical depression.
I think John Updike gave him a bad review.
I read it somewhere.
It must have been in Clare Boomer's book.
Yeah, it might have been.
I interviewed her, believe it or not.
But anyway, I have nothing better to respect my time.
Do you have an idea for a novel?
No, I don't.
I never have had an idea for a novel, so somebody said there was a very good review in the L.A.
Times with this book.
That ends with this.
I mentioned a sequel in the galleys.
In the galleys, the joke is not obvious.
It's not obvious that I'm joking.
I hope not.
I hope not because...
It would be almost a synthetic clarification.
I don't know what else I could write about in one life that would be worth writing, it would be interesting, it would be unusual.
To talk about the breakup of my marriage would be just tried stuff.
And whose business is that?
If there's anything really as usual, I suppose, if it's the creation of a great novel, then maybe it's perfect.
I'm saying that he doesn't want to talk about it.
One reason is not particularly interesting.
I'm thinking with more world experiences.
Less high world experiences are not going to use it.
And then you use the best of them already.
Maybe I should have presented it.
I'll read the book.
I'll say, in a part of that, I wouldn't be able to repeat.
But there was a... I gave her...
I don't have anything to do to put in unless, you know, 75 years from now, if I live another 70 years, I hope to write another novel.
So you think Vonnegut will probably come back?
I think Vonnegut will write.
He has no hobbies.
I have no hobbies.
He has no real distractions.
He has a daughter.
He's a daughter who is preoccupied.
So I don't.
If I have nothing to do with my time, I get very depressed.
And you like to write?
I like to write, yeah, and I like to write difficult books.
The article, I did read to Christopher Barnaby, I did read it to three of them before, two of them after the row.
They're different.
and they'd take a week or two.
But they're only diverging.
If I had to do it regularly, I couldn't do it.
I was run out of ideas, run out of music.
Does the humor come naturally, and does it really have to work again?
There are at least two parts of my personality, which I try to present now and then.
There's the interior part, which can be moody, anxious, tense.
I say, if I'm not working, there's nothing I want to do.
I wake up in the morning, I can't think of anything I want to do.
I can be very, very gloomy.
The other thing is when I relate to people I like being with, I can keep talking and talking and laughing.
I love the fascination for food though.
That's my Achilles heel.
But it made me close to Universal.
Other people, in common, you know, I like to say that the world seems to be almost synonymous with being alive and enjoying life.
And it's one of the great parties when you read of that poor guy Brady got shot when he was guarding Reagan.
He lost his taste.
He couldn't taste food anymore.
Oh, Reagan?
The guy, remember, Brady?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, Brady, yeah, he lost his taste.
You can have it if you want.
I want you to assign my book.
What's your schedule?
Are you planning out today?
I'm going to give you my card.
And you still have your book?
Of course you have your book.
Well, what I've done, you know that, huh?
That's cool.
You remember that.
That's why you're here.
But I've got 20 papers now.
i got them on my own and i'm in and i what do you tell me that i think the last time i had 10 papers now i got 20. now i'll sign it before i have an experience are you kidding these things this is my this is my great collection this led to the writing of my book it's a unique collection
I started doing this 1,000 authors ago, 20 years ago.
I've done one a week.
I haven't missed a week.
You must have a big book and a big library.
The house is filled.
And I've got every book that you've done, signed, ascribed.
Katie, what's that?
Do you know what you might do?
If you have the time, get in touch with Forbes F1.
You're in the Forbes building.
Ask if they can send you a copy.
Yeah, I will.
I'll do whatever.
With the piece on your own.
You want me to send you a copy?
No, I have one copy.
I mean, of the piece today, right?
Oh, sure, sure.
Well, they will get it.
If you want to take the trouble, fine.
I'm happy to.
Sometimes they're four, four, five, six weeks behind.
All right, send it to me.
You got a P.O.
box or something?
68.
Skim Hampton.
S-K-I-M?
Yeah, road.
Would you like to see a copy of my book?
If I send you a copy of my book?
It's about book madness.
I had a great chapter of the book beat, the guy who stole $20 million worth of books.
And I went to his trial out in Iowa.
And he stole the books because he loved them.
That's what made him very interesting.
You know, some people steal for greed.
This guy stole.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
I had the great book cube stories.
Bibliomania over 2,500 years.
It's kind of fun.
People who have killed for books.
People who have been killed by books.
They have great relations.
This is fun.
This is the fourth interview, so you say it.
I still have all the notes, so I figure everything we've said before is stolen talent.
It's kind of hard finding new things to talk about, you know.
But I like this.
There's a great bit of blood noise.
Is that right?
I never met him.
You know, Christopher Lydon is very interesting.
Have you ever been on his show at all?
I think I'm going on his show.
You're going there right now?
Yeah, he's good.
He's terrific.
You're going on there right now?
Oh, good, I'll listen to it on the way home.
Terrific.
Oh, that's great.
Well, he's got a Henry James New York edition.
I was on his show.
And he says to me, what did you pay for yours?
I said, you don't want to know.
I paid $2,500 for his.
And his is only fair.
I got mine through the university.
I was with somebody who had given it.
I should take $1,500 on the tape.